i'm logan i started uh fin vc back in
2018 as a spin out of sofi ventures um
and hopefully everybody's familiar with
sofi but we
but focused on the student lending and
consumer fintech space at nbc we call
ourselves fintech nerds with capital
and we're really focused in on
enterprise sas within the fintech space
in the us and europe we do that out of
an early stage fund and a growth stage
fund so we're fielding uh decks uh in
the thousands every month and so we see
a lot of presentations and want to
provide some guidance on best practices
um in terms of what we're seeing in
space we have seven unicorns on our
platform so we've seen a lot of
companies from seed stage into unicorn
and
we're going to use one of our earlier
stage companies as an example which is a
company called neuro id
which is in the behavioral analytics
space they measure fraud and friction
and using behavioral analytics and this
deck is public it was featured in
business insider is one of the uh the
best early stage decks so
if you go to business insider and you
just type in your id you can see the
original presentation but i'm using it
as a as a visual guide an example
feel free to shoot me
questions on chat i'll do my best to
respond to those in real time um but i
wanted to take you through some some
thoughts that we have on uh
communicating your story as an
entrepreneur
because at the end of the day as a bc
we're seeing a significant number of
presentations uh every day
and we're looking at these presentations
as you may be able to see in your
docsent shares in some cases we're
looking at it in a matter of
seconds and for us we're very thesis
driven so we're looking for business
model fit and thesis fit
and then beyond that we're looking for
the following things that i'll go
through so
in telling your story
communicating your thesis on why you
think
your company needs to exist and why you
think there's a huge market opportunity
specifically for the problem that you're
solving for and being very clear about
what your product currently accomplishes
the product roadmap that's ahead and
then the business model that you're
going to use to monetize that i can't
tell you how many times we get a
presentation and we're fintech experts
we're fintech nerds is all we do and i
can't understand what the company
actually physically does and i go to
their website and i'm also confused so
understanding what business you're in uh
sounds basic but uh needs to be super
clear um so in neuro ids case um you
know they're basically digital body
language that's their their view in
terms of understanding what that digital
footprint is um and um we got very
excited about that in preventing fraud
and also understanding friction in a
funnel process second thing is team
alignment we see a lot of teams that are
solving trying to solve for a business
problem and then it's not clear why this
is the right team to solve that problem
uh market inflection why now um in terms
of you're going after this problem some
people are related to a problem some
people are too late to a problem when
there's a huge amount of saturation and
competition why is this the right
inflection point um understanding of
initial traction you may be pre-seed so
you may not have any traction but at
least you've done some customer
conversations and surveys to validate
that yeah this needs to exist um and
then
i always tell entrepreneurs to flip the
script on the vc as quickly as possible
i love entrepreneurs that do this when
we're in a conversation an entrepreneur
is pitching me and they're saying
hey um you know
why why should we take your money
capital for the best entrepreneurs is a
pure commodity there's plenty of capital
out there you need to find the right vc
partner and you should be asking your vc
up front the hard questions
i'm seeing a question from liz good
question so i'm looking at this as early
stage
you know kind of seed series a in terms
of your presentation certainly a lot of
these themes will carry forward um but
wanted to you know give uh give you guys
a little bit of a view on that um david
i like your question um yeah it's it's
uh it is not passive it's actually if
you have a thesis and you have an
understanding and you've been doing this
for 20 years you have a pretty clear
view on messaging and presentations and
you have a limited amount of bandwidth
so absolutely we give every company a
fair look and we have a team of 12
people so a lot of people are spending a
ton of time looking at companies that
are sending us presentations but if you
don't capture their attention and you
don't structure your deck and your story
in the right way it's not going to hit
home and you're probably not going to
get a first meeting which is which is
unfortunate
second is just on the business model
um so
really understanding um whether this is
a feature product or platform right vcs
and companies really enjoy
investing in platforms and those have
long
longevity and scale
versus a feature um or you know a
singular product that may not have that
scalability and that market size
ultimately um and then understanding who
your customer is and the voice of that
customer so personas um the types of
people that you're going after and so
forth really critical to make that clear
and to show product market fit eg hey
these are the logos that we've been able
to bring in
or these are the initial customer
conversations we've had and here's been
their feedback in terms of how we're
positioning the company monetization
your pricing model is is really
important for us we look for businesses
that have both a recurring revenue
element to their business so they've got
a subscription model traditional
enterprise sas or you're selling into
middle market and smb and you've got
some kind of recurring revenue
subscription based on the size of the
business and then maybe you have a
transaction element so in fintech that
might be interchange um or it might be
some kind of uh lending fee or or rev
share or the like so being very crystal
clear on how your pricing how that will
translate into your other metrics and
specifically your acvs
being very upfront about the competition
in terms of why you will win um also
really important right so you're going
to have competitors you're running into
people in the market why are you winning
uh when you go against them and is there
a specific moat around your business
that really differentiate you
differentiates you from the uh the
competition
um team is everything right in a seat
stage and
even in a series a
um when you're kind of early days on
your traction
understanding who the team is their
background and the relevant experience
in terms of why this is the team that's
going to solve this problem and take it
taking it forward
is huge and so we spend a lot of time
getting to know our team members
we do channel checks and we
you know ask for references certainly
but we're also doing off sheet channel
checks and asking you know former uh
colleagues and so forth how it is to
work with you um just be very prepared
for that to you know have a strong story
on on this team why it's the right
dynamics
if you are hiring in the future where
you're looking to fill in on the
management team
very critical
and just understanding where your blind
spots might be and so forth
so team is is really critical in
articulating your experience how you're
working together who's covering off what
in the organization and so forth is
really big
market sizing
you know is a art and a science um so
understanding how big this market is
particularly if you're going into a new
space
is is really important for you to
understand and for your investors to
understand larger markets translate into
larger companies and it also creates a
higher probability of success
and i think sizing the market in terms
of potential customers
how much revenue they're spending so in
the enterprise sas world for example
within fintech financial services
industry spends a trillion dollars per
year on technology
about 40 of that or 400 million 400
billion rather uh is on software um so
that's a big market um and then within
that market obviously
it divides down into the types of
enterprise sas companies um and you're
really looking to produce both for your
own sweat equity and for your investors
a 10x plus type outcome and and how
you're going to accomplish that and what
you think that scaling curve looks like
is is really important
and then
for chris's question on tam versus sam
definitely look at tam and sam
um and um you know both need to be
significant um in terms of yeah the
bigger market but what market is
actually realistic and what percentage
realistically in the near term can you
capture um within within that market i'm
going to take us through a bunch of
metrics um here um and we have some
proprietary metrics that we developed if
nvc
it was funny because we were looking at
early stage and growth stage companies
and if you look at sas metrics that are
produced by the investment banks or you
know research groups they're almost all
public market comps and you're kind of
like this isn't that helpful so we
actually developed seed a and b
metric benchmarks for early stage
entrepreneurs and we're going to share
those with you today they're those
they're they're there for you to take
away this is a bunch of sweat equity
that we developed on our own um and then
we also looked at other metrics that we
like to look at that we think are super
relevant so
these are all you know fairly obvious um
i would say
we'll go through some more complex ones
here in a second
top line uh both on a net revenue basis
and on an ar basis are really critical i
would say you know one key piece here is
we see a bunch of i'll call them fuzzy
metrics they come across
contracted arr is my favorite there
there is no such thing as contracted ar
um you either have recognized ar or you
have bookings right so you could
describe bookings maybe as contracted
arr but understanding revenue
recognition particularly in an
enterprise sas business is super
critical
and understanding what that pipeline
looks like and the probability of that
potentially getting converted when
you're early stage seed in series a even
through kind of series b your month on
month growth is pretty important because
you can see some really dramatic swings
there
cac ltv so how much you're paying to
acquire a customer enterprise middle
market or smb or consumer if you're a
consumer-oriented business getting very
clear about that cat being fully loaded
so don't try to play games with cac and
ltv calculations just be very clear on
how you're arriving at that number and
what that ltv looks like and the ltv
obviously is really critical um in terms
of your ability to upsell and cross-sell
that person
acvs so when we look at acvs this is our
average contract value so
we're basically looking at how much are
customers willing to pay on average for
your product
more relevant in an enterprise sas
context obviously and this is very
enterprise sas geared i admit
but it's also important to understand
what your value
per consumer is as well
so i would i would certainly look at
that in addition so um you know i would
say that um
let me just go to this slide here which
is a little more
instructive
um so we look at seed series a series b
um primarily out of our flagship fund we
also look at series cd but i'm going to
focus here on the early stage
opportunities
so
uh this is every metric that we look at
um and i think you know same thing can
be said for largely every other bc
um and this is what we're benchmarking
you against when we receive a company
that's raising a seed round a series
around our series b round we share this
with all of our portfolio companies
because they very much want to
understand where they should be
in their life cycle when they're
preparing to raise more capital
and what best in practice looks like
so serious seed companies you know from
an ar perspective we're typically
looking for 500k to a million in arr to
seed that can be forward-looking right
so you could be doing 100 to 250k in arr
but if we can see bookings and pipeline
growth that's trending towards 500k to a
million we're going to get excited about
that and we're going to dig in right so
that's that's how to think about ar in
the seed stage it's a it's a there's a
little bit more of a forward-looking
basis
in the seed and certainly in the series
a and series b we're giving you
forward-looking credit in terms of your
multiple so if you're doing a million of
ar this year but you're expecting you're
going to do 5 million of ar next year
and you can provide some some meaningful
pipeline to support that forecast we're
going to give you that credit uh for
next year's revenue in our valuation
considerations um and then the other
ones that i like to look at in the seed
is as companies scale is concentration
risk so we'll look at your top 10
customers and we'll look at what revenue
they're generating you don't want to
have too much concentration there
because if you lose one customer
obviously that's a big healthy chunk of
your aor
and that goes hand in hand with looking
at churn numbers
so if we can look at your cohort
analysis
and be comfortable that you're getting
low churn typically sub 10
at scale
and you're getting high dollar net
retention numbers meaning not only are
you not churning but you're growing and
upselling your customers that's a huge
consideration for us
backlog and implementation is also a
metric we look at in terms of how long
is your sales cycle and then how long
does it take you for you to implement
we tend to look at a lot of api and uh
developer
driven solutions so typically there's an
api or sandbox in there it's pretty
self-serve um we do have some companies
that obviously sell in enterprises and
there's more of an enterprise sales
process there and we're looking at how
long that implementation is
and how easy it is to integrate are
these apis is this a mobile sdk
is it a pretty straightforward
implementation that's not going to take
a ton of professional services dollars
we're looking at you know billings which
you know and buildings or bookings right
which is sold but not implemented so you
can't recognize that as arr yet um from
an accounting standard perspective but
it's
it's largely contracted and it's high
probability from a conversion
perspective we're also
on a qualitative basis
we're talking to both current customers
and prospective customers and if you're
a good vc like we like to think we are
you're making introductions to
prospective customers so when we meet a
fintech company in the seed or series a
stage we're actually making
introductions to potential customers and
that gives us a lot of insight in terms
of your sales process and your sales
motion
gives us insight into the customer
feedback and how they're viewing the
product in their tech stack whether
there's friction there what the
particular product feedback is and then
we're also getting an insight in terms
of the implementation and the follow
through in terms of your customer
success
so hopefully this is helpful
in terms of the benchmark i'm going to
come back to the slide and then i'm
going to start taking questions um but
uh these these obviously you can you can
take away um but these are all the calcs
um around how we think about
each of these uh different metrics and
so
um gives you a sense for how we
look at them and how you should think
about measuring them um and i think
we've gone over
largely all of these
um so i'll go back to the slide and take
some take some questions
logan thank you so much we do have a
couple questions in the chat if you want
to start there
um
first is just
you know this criteria is that for
companies of any stage or early or
really can you
should yeah
i addressed that earlier um i addressed
all the questions that are in the chat
except for one the one from david here
which i'll take um so
you know our metrics uh here are
obviously early stage focused i think um
you know in building a presentation a
lot of the lessons learned that i shared
certainly are meaningful from seed
through to
exit but
i was trying to focus this on on earlier
stage entrepreneurs really building a
story on how they can become a unicorn
um and then um for david's question
um
if you're disrupting an industry and
potentially changing a market yeah
his question is
if your product is a disruptor versus an
enabler that's the way we think about it
so disruptor companies for us at least
tend to be consumer and smb focus or
you're competing with some kind of
incumbent and you found a way to disrupt
them we don't tend to invest as much in
that space in fintech because it's
fairly saturated um candidly but
certainly in other industries you know
absolutely disruptive companies can be
massive businesses just look at uber and
airbnb and doordash and so forth those
are those are long tail
you know very binary type outcomes
and those can be exciting businesses
um
how do you view sorry i'm just going to
go through a couple of other questions
here
um
so yeah so
geraldo asked about pre-revenue precede
stage
i would say that you know pre-reverent
precede you're much more relying on the
team
the thesis and the product roadmap um
versus something that has more product
market fit right so this is seed c plus
stage uh as a starting point um where
we're looking for folks that you know
have a product in the market and are
starting to get traction
um
and then in terms of
other questions
yeah so i would say
cac ltv questions that you guys are
asking um and being early in a company's
maturity cycle totally understand and
agree with that sentiment um these these
numbers mature right so as you get more
cohorts more time
and experience with your customers
you're going to get more maturity on
what that true ltv cac ratio is um and
you know early on in the seed stage you
should definitely be having kind of a
two to four x
type uh ltv to cac ratio right if you're
not able to show
right size unit economics from the
get-go um what does that mean in scale
um so
i think i covered that one off
um
chris messina
asked me about municipal government
solutions hey great question um selling
into governments are hard um
uh
we were looking at a company currently
that's focused on using blockchain for
municipal bond issuance
and generally
companies like palantir have been
successful selling into governments
there's a company called opengov that's
been successful selling to governments
longer sales cycles more challenging but
certainly a lot of budget and obviously
opportunity but our view is that
government should be one of your
verticals not your exclusive vertical
independency
so
ron asked me about how do you see
strategic value for the acquirer versus
current companies ebitda and ar
yeah so um definitely looking at both
right so ron if they're acquiring the ip
and they're integrating that and they're
viewing that as a new revenue channel
they're looking at themselves as a
distribution channel and the size of the
opportunity underneath their umbrella
versus really existing ebitda and arr
certainly that customer
inclusion in that new business might be
meaningful but they're broadly really
looking at sizing the opportunity in
terms of the ip and the modes of that
business and what that can mean with
their existing distribution
models
baron asked me about 600 year-over-year
growth yeah it's a small base um you
know seed stage companies have a very if
you're starting at zero uh and then
you're getting to you know 60k to 600k
uh type ranges um you get to pretty
large uh
rates
uh vishal asked me a good question about
retention numbers so
interestingly
what we found in enterprise sas is
actually an acceleration
in growth and significant uh covet
tailwinds as we're calling them
so work from home type businesses
distributed work type businesses
digitization companies so
we have a company in our portfolio
called natomi which
provides digital customer service and as
you can imagine people can't go into
bank branches they can't go into call
centers so there's a massive amount of
benefit to having a digital customer
service operation
and but for consumer and smb companies
absolutely there was higher degrees of
churn um obviously some challenges um in
right-sizing those businesses there's
probably going to be some down rounds or
flat rounds and those types of models um
so you know this is again very much
geared towards enterprise software um
type companies uh a lot saster
versus a a consumer smb oriented company
i'm just gonna scroll through some of
these other questions see if i missed
anything here
uh nate asked me about enterprise so
and our enterprise customers um
typically you know these are our large
call it fortune 500 companies so you can
think about it that way
and then middle market and then smb so
that's how we divide the channels
um
jack asked me about positive
ebt
um i'm assuming you mean even uh
we don't invest in profitable businesses
as a as a vc or a private equity player
you're looking for companies that are
growing 80 to 100 percent
they're really maximizing on top line
growth versus profitability um
ultimately obviously there has to be
profitability on the horizon more of
these growth than pre-ipo companies um
but you know as it relates to early
stage companies and growth stage
companies ebitda is not not only
an equation
darius asked me a good question on top
red flags if the team is not right and
i'll i'll close with this question
um just to uh you know give you a sense
for for that um you know i think on the
team side
um we're really uh diligencing the team
members in terms of their past history
um so we like repeat entrepreneurs in
particular
we also prefer technical ceos so product
and eng backgrounds
as ceo
they could have started a company
previously as a repeat entrepreneur and
completely failed
and that's all good if they learn
something for that and they're coming
back and starting a new company that
grit and resilience that demonstrates is
awesome
and we're very happy to back those types
of entrepreneurs i would say the flags
come from
entrepreneurs who came from a company
maybe they had some reputational issues
and prior leadership roles that we've
been able to determine um culture is a
big thing we look at um so if that
entrepreneur you know didn't really
you know set the right tonality culture
wise
they didn't believe in dni they didn't
believe
in having a collaborative work
environment these types of metrics
we take very seriously when we're
evaluating a team i would say the second
flag on a team is just a big gap in the
team
so if they don't have a cfo vp of
finance
or a ceo who's really running ops and or
a cro who's running the sales motion and
go to market strategy
there really needs to be at least some
completeness in the team it might just
be a ceo and a cto but they need to be
very clear about what aspects of the
business um
uh they're looking at so um hopefully uh
uh that is helpful insight obviously
you're uh you're welcome to take the
presentation with you um this will be
posted and distributed um and hopefully
this gives you a sense for benchmark for
a sas company um as you're out in the
market and some insight on developing
presentations um so i'll close there
and appreciate everybody carving out
some time particularly for folks here in
san francisco during your lunch hour
[Music]
you